# 6.4 Acknowledging volunteers

Many projects choose to acknowledge volunteer work in their publications and other research outputs. Volunteers generally appreciate and have increasingly come to expect formal acknowledgement of their effort in crowdsourced science. There is no one way to effectively acknowledge volunteers and their contributions, but the best place to start figuring out an appropriate acknowledgement of their efforts is to ask them.  You can begin this conversation by posting a Talk thread which seeks advice about how volunteers would like to be acknowledged. Since some volunteers may not have considered this question before, you might start the conversation by providing examples of how other researchers have recognized volunteer labor. 

For instance, the team of researchers behind the _Bash the Bug_ project acknowledged its volunteer community generally in the acknowledgements section of its most recent [publication](https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.75046) while the _Exoplanet Explorers_ project listed every volunteer contributor by either their username or real name (if the user opted in to share it) under the [Team](https://www.zooniverse.org/projects/ianc2/exoplanet-explorers/about/team) section of their Zooniverse project. There are even projects like _Radio Galaxy Zoo_ in which volunteers have made such significant contributions they were invited to become co-authors on [peer-reviewed publications in scientific journals](https://doi.org/10.1093/mnras/stw1067). 

As the European Commission’s [Parthenos Project](https://training.parthenos-project.eu/sample-page/citizen-science-in-the-digital-arts-and-humanities/creating-a-citizen-science-project/72490-2/) points out, such formal acknowledgements in scientific publications are important, but may not be the most important form of acknowledgement to the volunteers themselves. Creative ways of recognizing volunteer participation through such means as in-person or virtual events and portable badges might mean more to a given volunteer community. Your volunteer community and individual volunteers will always be the place resource to guide you on how to acknowledge their contributions in a way that’s meaningful to them.  